# Artificial Intelligence
In this project we started by building a bot that can learn to play the snake game. It is a single player grid based game, the objective is to grow the snake as long as possible by collecting the food without colliding with itself or the wall. As people, we can develop different strategies for achieving an outstanding score but to train a bot we need to encode the strategies we intuitively come up with. In our project we are going to implement and analyze algorithms from the extremely naive methods to the more complex ones, to maximize the game score. Firstly we are going to focus on deterministic algorithms to maximize the score. These algorithms will just encode the decision making logic into algorithm i.e., same output for a given input e.g Starting with a random approach(this is the least successful and naive algorithm which doesn’t even use the information of location of food and length of grid) then we are going to improve this by using shortest path (A* algorithm) and going to do some experiments to check for collisions. We are going to end deterministic approaches with a brute force method(Hamiltonian cycles). Moving a head we are going to use Deep Q-Learning which is a specific type of Deep Reinforcement Learning. Before going to this approach we are also going to try on the genetic algorithms approach which has been popularly used. In this the population of snakes will slowly learn how to play the game.
Note: If time permits we are also looking forward to train our model/agent using PPO(Proximal Policy Optimization)
